---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

{% excerpt %}
As the end of the semester nears, I have stopped building prototypes and instead turned to sketching designs for the user interface. In my last blog post I noted how the development of my first prototype helped me to identfity the user interface as a significant characteristic of this project, and integral to its success.
{% endexcerpt %}

In the weeks following that blog post, I have iterated upon the first version of the user interface. I am using my own heuristic analysis of the competition to inform the user interface, as some competition products – namely [Reeder](http://reederapp.com/) – have considerably well designed user interfaces and provide similar user journeys. Whilst Reeder has inspired me to make good decisions, Google Reader has had the opposite affect of illustrating bad user journeys. Much of my heuristic analysis regarding Google Reader has not inspired my user interface design, and this exacerbates what I found in my earlier market research – the need for a better web application.

To help me wireframe the user interface, I found a marvellous web application called [Moqups](https://moqups.com/). It is designed for quickly wireframing web and mobile applications, and allowed me to design far more quickly than I could have done through sketching. Moqups has some handy stencils for common web and mobile application UI items, such as checkboxes, radio buttons, and even the iOS back button.

In the coming weeks I will need to user test the new version of my user interface, and revert to working on the technical side of things. I plan on building the application in [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/), and before I can do that I have a lot to learn about how to structure an application designed to run on the server. I am already familiar with JavaScript but code architecture is very subjective according to the environment the language is running in, and so I will need to learn plenty about that. I anticipate that I will be able to get the gist of things in order over the Christmas break, so that come January I am ready to start building the bulk of the application!

I'm very excited to spend 4-5 months of a single project with little distraction (aka other work). I'm sure I will learn a lot about back-end and front-end web development, and if I'm lucky I might finish with a successful product I can continue to maintain.
