---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

{% excerpt %}
Without my Specification Report now finished, I have started to perform various tasks in an effort to prototype my project.
{% endexcerpt %}

I spent the best part of two weeks rapidly prototyping some features of the project. This involved building a back-end and front-end to the web application. For the purposes of this prototype, I used tools that I was familiar with to allow for an agile development process. On the back-end I used Symfony 2, a PHP framework that I have done work on in the past, and for the front-end I did not evaluate the structure or organisation of my HTML, CSS and JavaScript. The finished product of this process demonstrates to me that my idea is technically feasible, but I would like to get to grips with other technologies that might be better suited given the design of this web application. Thus, I intend to spend a few weeks over the Christmas holidays investigating a more suitable web stack.

This prototype also helped me to consider the user interface of the web application, which is an integral part of this project. Instead of brainstorming ideas beforehand, I simply developed the user interface I had in mind. I found that this particular design is not fit for purpose, however, as it does not take into account the various user journeys that would be made. Whilst the user interface I have developed is suitable for the few features in this prototype, the final product will have many more features. I will need to spend much more time considering the user interface for my Prototyping Documentation Report.
